>> Student: The libraries that we
were creating with the Nx Workspace,
what would be the equivalent of that if
we weren't using that extra layer of?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Good question.
So
that would then be scoped
specifically to your project.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
I would just create that,
in your app, it's a common feature.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so the difference
is you lose that portability but
typically you'll see in an app, you'll
see like a shared or a common folder.
And that's where those things would go, so
that it can be reused across components or
additional services.
And so prior to Nx, that's how I did that.
>> Student2: So
if you have your project schematics,
can you transfer those from
one Narwhal domain to another?
Or does the whole project tree get
swallowed up in Git when you check it in?
Is there any segmentation between
Narwhal and your project?
It seemed to me like it was all
consolidated but a lot of people
are asking the question or several
people asked that question on the chat.
Did I butcher it?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So the schematics
that we're using is in the global
scope when we did NPMI,
G, or you can do Yarn.
And so that goes into your
global registry, if you will.
If you created custom schematics, so for
instance in the tools,
if you look in the root here,
is that you can create your custom
schematics and check those in.
So the angular CLI stuff,
that's tucked into the module.
Nx, those are tucked in, but if you
created a custom schematic ,you would
put that in tools, schematics,
and drop that in there.
>> Student2: Great,
that answers the question.
>> Student: I'm gonna follow up,
if you were to play this,
how would you select
the libraries that you need?
Or would there be a similar
situation with the schematics or?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
you can do a targeted build,
ng build target, or
project equals dashboard,
and it will pull in whatever
it needs to do that.
One of the things that with a monorepo,
and it's it's not a huge insurmountable
thing, but if you have, for instance,
a continuous integration pipeline.
Well, before so go grab this repo and
everything that's in it.
Run it through AWS CodeBuild or Jenkins.
And then push it, into CodeDeploy and
then into Fargate or something.
With a monorepo, is you just have
to retool your build scripts,
your continuous integration, to say I want
to just target a piece of this monorepo.
And so it can be done.
But that is the one thing you
would need to be cognizant of,
is that when you build, it needs to be on
a per-project basis, not a per-repo basis.
>> Student3: Do you usually put
services in the lib folder, or-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Typically, I do.
>> Student3: And I noticed, so I remember,
we created the logging component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Mm-hm.
>> Student3: Which I don't
feel like we really use it.
But I'm assuming you created that in
the lib folder not in the project
folder because that's something that
could be used across multiple projects.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Ding ding, and so
that's it, is if you ever stop and
you're like hey,
I could use this over here.
That's a pretty good candidate for
putting it in the lib folder.
So a lib is essentially transproject,
in other words,
it can go from one project to another.
And my hands got tired from generating
all that code this morning which
is why we didn't talk about the logging
component too much, but that was the idea.
Is that we could share that on
a dashboard, or a widget, or whatever.
>> Student3: And let's say if you have
another project list but that's slightly
different than the one that you currently
have, and you wanna reuse it that.
Is there a way of kind of altering it or
would you just have
to create another project list and
have it in the project folder?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
it depends on what you mean by project.
Or you have a list that you
need it to be different.
What do you mean by-
>> Student3: I guess I'm-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Are we talking about
visually different or
are we talking about functionally
it is just fundamentally different?
>> Student3: I guess I'm thinking in
terms of some projects that I've done
where we have.
So we've developed applications and
both of them at the end of the day
seem to do pretty much the same
thing except with different data.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right.
>> Student3: So I guess in terms of,
so it seemed pretty repetitive,
the code that we're writing,
except it was for different data sets.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right.
>> Student3: So I was just wondering
if there's an easier way of, I guess,
kinda creating a component that could
be used amongst different projects but
it would have different data sets,
I guess.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So one way that you
could definitely do that is if the data
sets converged or they overlapped
on a common set of properties.
Then what I would do is I
would create an interface
that covered or defined that intersection.
You could also even create an interface
with those properties in the optional,
it could go here or there.
With TypeScript, you can also do union
types, but the idea is that you create
an interface and you say, for instance,
let's say you have a cat and a dog.
They both have four legs,
two eyes, fur, mostly.
And so these are some common
properties on both of these
objects as you would create
a let's say a pet interface.
And now on the list, for instance,
instead of saying this
is a list of projects,
is you could say this
is a list of pet items.
But then in terms of the instantiation,
then you're passing in a concrete
instance of a dog or a cat.
Because a dog or
a cat implements the pet interface,
then you're programming to the interface
and not the concrete instance.
A very good book is
Head First Design Patterns.
And that's one of the first ones they
talk about is composition pattern.
Is that if you have a pretty similar
interface or visual interface, but
the data is slightly different,
is you define a common interface.
So when I said visual interface,
I'm talking about UI.
But then you define an actual interface
that defines that data model,
that both of them can implement.
And then you type everything
to the interface and
not the concrete implementation.
Does that make sense?
>> Student3: Yeah.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I mean,
there's probably maybe some more details
that I might change my answer if
I knew precisely.
But I would first start there and
just say what is common and
can I work around the common pieces?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so typically
what you do is you look what is common,
you program to that.
And then you notice where
things are different and
then you write the special
cases around that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
last question for the in crowd.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You wanna talk
about building performance, AOT?
How that's gonna change the world?
>> Student3: Yeah, well,
lazy loading touched on that [CROSSTALK].
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It's amazing,
it works every time.
>> Student2: So I think that's the core
issue of what I'm seeing in my project is
the components To understand more,
>> Student2: How
it decides,
>> Student2: What's loading and
what's not loading when
you're late in terms of lazy.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
the route will activate.
If the route's activated,
it will go and load that but-
>> Student2: Cuz you had the,
in the route itself, you had
the module name and then the hashtag,
then the class module
name within that hashtag.
So does that make it a call to
go fetch additional information
from the server at that point?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Mm-hm, so what it's
doing is it's saying go to this file,
grab this module definition,
and then load the rest of it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So there is,
with the Angular router, you can preload.
And so
if you just go Angular router preloading,
there's some different
ways you can do this.
But is basically a preloading strategy.
And you can do I wanna preload them all.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Or you can
specifically say I want these a la carte.
And so lets say you know for
a fact that 95% of your
users is going to use 3
out of your 33 modules.
But then I would say take Bootstrap,
the first module, and
make it a light as possible
to get that login screen.
Behind the scene, then I would preload
the three modules and lead up to that.
And then from there,
lazy load everything else.
Especially given the number
of permutations and
possibilities that you have.
>> Student2: Right.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Or definitely,
even though you are on mobile,
you're not gonna want to
frontload everything.
Especially, if you're paying per module,
that make no sense.
So you need to turn things on or off.
>> Student2: Okay, yeah,
I think I have a better
understanding of how that works now.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Awesome.
>> Student2: Yeah, thank you.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Mark,
you got half your hand in the air.
Now it's in the air.
What do you got for me, bud?
>> Student: What is the difference
between the tsconfig.app.json and
tsconfig.spec.json?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well,
let's take a peek.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: tsconfig.spec.json.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
one is how your TypeScript
is configured for testing.
So notice, we're saying for
the spec here's jasmine.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Also it's
saying include any spec file.
So this is specific to testing.
And then in your tsconfig,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It's slightly
different.
In this case, it's saying,
for the regular tsconfig.app,
it's saying ignore all the test,
so exclude test and spec.
But then if you look in the spec,
then that on the other hand
is saying give me the test.
So you're just simply saying this
is how I wanna configure my app and
this is how I want to configure my test.
Because when you go to your app,
in most cases,
you don't want to include the test and
vice versa.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So one is for testing,
one is for actually the application.
>> Student3: Isn't it advisable to when
you're to do test-driven development,
where you first write the test out and
then develop?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There are people that
would say you're not even a programmer if
you don't do test-driven development.
That I do not fall into that category
simply because it depends
on what you're doing.
For instance,
what if you're doing a proof of concept?
You haven't even validated
the feature set.
It would not makes sense to say I'm
gonna build this proof of concept and
then I'm gonna basically write
a bunch of tests along the way.
The unit test at that level is not
the appropriate level of test, or
the appropriate kind of testing.
If you're doing a probe, so I do
believe in test-driven development, but
the right kind.
So if I'm doing a proof of concept,
it certainly is test-driven,
as in user test-driven.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now once I validate
the feature set or the functionality and
I'm putting it into production, you better
believe that there's going to be test.
At least around the critical things.
And then if a bug comes,
then test on that.
As well, is once you start to
integrate into other systems.
Well, then you're gonna
have the integration test.
And so
it's you should always have test, but
do I think a test needs to happen
before you write the code?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I would say if that
helps you be a more effective developer,
then by all means.
I personally would generally not do that.
>> Student: Especially in the UI code.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right.
>> Student: It's never gonna happen,
at least, not with the current tools.
Perhaps maybe in the future.
But the only time I've ever
seen it being test-driven
development actually be effective
is on the API layer itself
on the server but-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
the reason why that works is
because it's model-driven.
In other words, once you understand
the model, you can infer the convention.
And so it's very easy to write test
on that because you know, hey,
it's gonna be rest, or it's gonna be this.
And it's pretty much set in stone as
well as so, another example I heard,
just to go the other way, is should
you do test-driven development or
even in terms of agile methodology?
Do you just kind of, where does that go?
Well, if you're doing front end
Web application, you make it,
something happens.
Nobody's gonna die.
But if you're doing embedded
hardware in a pacemaker,
then the stakes are a lot higher and
you may want to actually lead with that.
So it's just understanding, I think you
gotta be careful not to make these blanket
statements, test drive everything.
I think not.
Yes, Mark?
>> Student: Is there a way in Narwhal
to publish libraries individually so
that we can use them in different
projects located in separated repos?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes, so
when you generate a library,
there's a publishable flag.
And what that would do is
sort of set up the code so
that you can actually publish
that specific library.
So that it can be used,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: As
basically as an MPM module.
>> Student: Do you typically put all
of the apps in this same repo or
separate it out like you're saying?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I would generally put,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All the apps for
a particular, within a reasonable domain.
So in other words,
if I'm dealing with a client that has four
front end applications,
they will all go in the monorepo.
And so one of the clients
that I'm working with now,
it's that situation
where they have seven or
eight apps that sit within the monorepo
that share common functionality.
But if I was in a large organization and
you had this
business unit over here that had no
relation whatsoever over to here and
they're using different technologies or
something.
Would I force that into a single monorepo?
Probably not, but
typically if I'm working on related
projects that could benefit from
shared functionality, I will and
will put them all on a single monorepo,
aka Narwhal workspace.